notes/small-scale-social.mdx, before:

export const metadata = {
  title: "Towards Small-Scale Social",
  description: "TK",
  author: "Brendan",
  published: "2023-11-30",
  tags: ["essays"],
};

<Quote>What do we want from our online social spaces?</Quote>

What do we need, and what do we only reach to out of habit? What exhausts, and what nourishes?

Social environments on the internet provide a confounding bundle of things: conversation, riffing, jokes and shitposts, entertainment, learning, distraction, inspiration, meeting interesting people.

It's a beautiful bundle, to be sure! It's also fragile, and chaotic, and becoming increasingly clear that no platform can sustainably deliver all that we need. And the priorities of the biggest social media platforms are very different from the parts that actually benefit our lives.

<Quote>Social media's in a bit of a crisis.</Quote>

Maybe it always has been, but the present vibes feel particularly unstable. This is destabilizing, but also primes us for what comes next. Twitter clones abound; fragmentation is expected; love and hate relationships are the norm.

We think we want better chat, better blogs, better Twitter, better Discord…but it's hard to define what this means. When we think about these platforms at their best: they're about connection, meaning, friends, sparks of delight and provocations and resonance.

<Quote>Yearning, seeking, inventing, asking for more…</Quote>

These days many of the best online social experiences happen in very small-scale environments. A few friends, a loose microcommunity, a cozy corner with the right vibes.

It's in the air, thick with it, even, in certain places — the cozyweb, the indieweb, the slow web; "tiny internets" and "run your own social"; independent creative communities, local learning spaces, small schools and squads…and beyond.

## Mapping What Matters

What are the parts of this that actually matter? Social goals are different for everyone, but the things we value and find most energy in include:

- **activity that makes you feel good**: doing things that you'll care about tomorrow, next week, next year; using technology intentionally, as a means of deepening relationships
- **DIY social graphs**: real updates from real friends; distributed mutual mentorship
- **creative agency and intentionality**: emergent creative experiments
- **intimacy and shared resonance**: third spaces; cozy cafes, intriguing corners of the library

Conversely, there are some things we don't want, because we know they're at odds with the above! If we're moving towards small-scale social, we're pushing back against:

- algorithm-driven friend-making
- monolithic platform control
- internet as universal background noise / distraction monster

Give us group chats, but with purpose — where we can focus energy towards meaningful collaboration, meetings of minds. This is hard, because it's way easier to browse and scroll — so we need a lot of activation energy, lower friction for creative experiments.

Give us online social environments that are non-algorithmic, purpose-driven, intimate, and intentional — grounded in simple acts of being and doing things with friends, yet with space for serendipity, room for emergent social pathways to wend their way from loose ties to collaborative circles.

Give us places with edges, boundaries, doors and walls. With legible changes, finite and countable updates. Where we can explore cool projects with people we know, talk about them, start new things together.

## Shared Society of Small-Scale Social

We're not the only ones who want this. There are a number of others doing great work on small-scale social internet experiences, platforms, and tools:

- [Arena](https://www.are.na/): small-scale social around curation + collection
- [Futureland](https://futureland.tv/): small-scale social around habits + journaling
- [Kinopio](https://kinopio.club/): small-scale social around mind-maps and shared idea-space
- [Sprout](https://sprout.place/): small-scale social around shared virtual presence
- [mmm.page](https://mmm.page/): small-scale social around websites-as-creative-canvas

And of course, individuals wield the tools available every day to create beautiful shared spaces for friends — surfing and subverting platform norms, carving paths, setting examples — making things work, somehow, through sheer force of will:

- Small circles hosting creative challenges on Instagram
- Prosocial conversational stewardship on Twitter
- Book clubs emerging from DMs
- Tiny Discords, carefully configured, for friends to hang together
- Personal websites in Google Docs; parties in Google Sheets

We're happy to be a part of this ecosystem…

…and we also want to figure out ways to play together……to weave together these different kinds of spaces, this whole set of tools, this library of experiences and ways of exploring and…and………and…………

## Hyperlink's Role in the Small-Scale Socialverse

So, we're building in this space — but where, exactly? What are we trying to make; what experiences and abilities do we want to enable?

Hyperlink's area of focus is something like small-scale social for collaborative learning and creative exploration.

In particular, we're all about making environments and infrastructure for doing ambitious, creative, agential work together with people we care about.

Some of the things we're working on to align with the above tenets of great small-scale social environments:

- **Spaces that feel like magic circles**, with clear boundaries and intimate membership, where all participants are invited and joining signals real intention to do meaningful things together
- **Work surfaces for ambitious projects**, a place to explore big goals, iterate toward creative visions, and produce interesting artifacts — tangible things that feel good to complete!
- **Strong sense of context** — ways to not only chat casually, but talk about specific things in detail, e.g. being able to comment on anything, and easily see what others are talking about and reply
- **High-signal activity**: notifications triggered by meaningful actions from people, not automated nags about things you don't care about
- **Gradients of social participation**, so people can inhabit flexible roles, in different projects and at different times, sometimes highly involved, sometimes dropping in for quick feedback or encouragement
- **Help focusing intention and working memory**: ways to designate things to do together, keep work in progress visible, identify next steps to keep momentum going, make process feel natural and fun
- **Build a home together**, a place on the internet to go to do particular things with particular people, where it feels nice to hang and work together, even when you're not in the same room

We hope these things can help us direct attention together, encourage positive feedback loops, find serendipity, do meaningful activity, hype each other up, spend time well, and nurture big ideas and dreams.

## Exploring Together

There's so much more for us to explore! We've been playing with collaborative projects, environments for group work, and a variety of small experiments. We've been thinking about what it means to design your own campus, network, creative home…

What's next?

Right now we're exploring how we can better support groups gathering on the internet — from community events and meetups, to tiny conferences and cohorts, experimental workshops, and more.

Convening to do things together…and doing things over time. Hosting a garden party…but also tending to the garden.

[Join us](https://hyperlink.academy/) in playing with small-scale social spaces on the internet.

Commit message:

added small scale social post description

notes/small-scale-social.mdx, after:

export const metadata = {
  title: "Towards Small-Scale Social",
  description:
    "Exploring visions for more intimate social spaces on the internet — creative and intimate environments, with real friends, where we do things that make us feel good — mapping the vibes and setting intentions for our role in the small-scale socialverse",
  author: "Brendan",
  published: "2023-11-30",
  tags: ["essays"],
};

<Quote>What do we want from our online social spaces?</Quote>

What do we need, and what do we only reach to out of habit? What exhausts, and what nourishes?

Social environments on the internet provide a confounding bundle of things: conversation, riffing, jokes and shitposts, entertainment, learning, distraction, inspiration, meeting interesting people.

It's a beautiful bundle, to be sure! It's also fragile, and chaotic, and becoming increasingly clear that no platform can sustainably deliver all that we need. And the priorities of the biggest social media platforms are very different from the parts that actually benefit our lives.

<Quote>Social media's in a bit of a crisis.</Quote>

Maybe it always has been, but the present vibes feel particularly unstable. This is destabilizing, but also primes us for what comes next. Twitter clones abound; fragmentation is expected; love and hate relationships are the norm.

We think we want better chat, better blogs, better Twitter, better Discord…but it's hard to define what this means. When we think about these platforms at their best: they're about connection, meaning, friends, sparks of delight and provocations and resonance.

<Quote>Yearning, seeking, inventing, asking for more…</Quote>

These days many of the best online social experiences happen in very small-scale environments. A few friends, a loose microcommunity, a cozy corner with the right vibes.

It's in the air, thick with it, even, in certain places — the cozyweb, the indieweb, the slow web; "tiny internets" and "run your own social"; independent creative communities, local learning spaces, small schools and squads…and beyond.

## Mapping What Matters

What are the parts of this that actually matter? Social goals are different for everyone, but the things we value and find most energy in include:

- **activity that makes you feel good**: doing things that you'll care about tomorrow, next week, next year; using technology intentionally, as a means of deepening relationships
- **DIY social graphs**: real updates from real friends; distributed mutual mentorship
- **creative agency and intentionality**: emergent creative experiments
- **intimacy and shared resonance**: third spaces; cozy cafes, intriguing corners of the library

Conversely, there are some things we don't want, because we know they're at odds with the above! If we're moving towards small-scale social, we're pushing back against:

- algorithm-driven friend-making
- monolithic platform control
- internet as universal background noise / distraction monster

Give us group chats, but with purpose — where we can focus energy towards meaningful collaboration, meetings of minds. This is hard, because it's way easier to browse and scroll — so we need a lot of activation energy, lower friction for creative experiments.

Give us online social environments that are non-algorithmic, purpose-driven, intimate, and intentional — grounded in simple acts of being and doing things with friends, yet with space for serendipity, room for emergent social pathways to wend their way from loose ties to collaborative circles.

Give us places with edges, boundaries, doors and walls. With legible changes, finite and countable updates. Where we can explore cool projects with people we know, talk about them, start new things together.

## Shared Society of Small-Scale Social

We're not the only ones who want this. There are a number of others doing great work on small-scale social internet experiences, platforms, and tools:

- [Arena](https://www.are.na/): small-scale social around curation + collection
- [Futureland](https://futureland.tv/): small-scale social around habits + journaling
- [Kinopio](https://kinopio.club/): small-scale social around mind-maps and shared idea-space
- [Sprout](https://sprout.place/): small-scale social around shared virtual presence
- [mmm.page](https://mmm.page/): small-scale social around websites-as-creative-canvas

And of course, individuals wield the tools available every day to create beautiful shared spaces for friends — surfing and subverting platform norms, carving paths, setting examples — making things work, somehow, through sheer force of will:

- Small circles hosting creative challenges on Instagram
- Prosocial conversational stewardship on Twitter
- Book clubs emerging from DMs
- Tiny Discords, carefully configured, for friends to hang together
- Personal websites in Google Docs; parties in Google Sheets

We're happy to be a part of this ecosystem…

…and we also want to figure out ways to play together……to weave together these different kinds of spaces, this whole set of tools, this library of experiences and ways of exploring and…and………and…………

## Hyperlink's Role in the Small-Scale Socialverse

So, we're building in this space — but where, exactly? What are we trying to make; what experiences and abilities do we want to enable?

Hyperlink's area of focus is something like small-scale social for collaborative learning and creative exploration.

In particular, we're all about making environments and infrastructure for doing ambitious, creative, agential work together with people we care about.

Some of the things we're working on to align with the above tenets of great small-scale social environments:

- **Spaces that feel like magic circles**, with clear boundaries and intimate membership, where all participants are invited and joining signals real intention to do meaningful things together
- **Work surfaces for ambitious projects**, a place to explore big goals, iterate toward creative visions, and produce interesting artifacts — tangible things that feel good to complete!
- **Strong sense of context** — ways to not only chat casually, but talk about specific things in detail, e.g. being able to comment on anything, and easily see what others are talking about and reply
- **High-signal activity**: notifications triggered by meaningful actions from people, not automated nags about things you don't care about
- **Gradients of social participation**, so people can inhabit flexible roles, in different projects and at different times, sometimes highly involved, sometimes dropping in for quick feedback or encouragement
- **Help focusing intention and working memory**: ways to designate things to do together, keep work in progress visible, identify next steps to keep momentum going, make process feel natural and fun
- **Build a home together**, a place on the internet to go to do particular things with particular people, where it feels nice to hang and work together, even when you're not in the same room

We hope these things can help us direct attention together, encourage positive feedback loops, find serendipity, do meaningful activity, hype each other up, spend time well, and nurture big ideas and dreams.

## Exploring Together

There's so much more for us to explore! We've been playing with collaborative projects, environments for group work, and a variety of small experiments. We've been thinking about what it means to design your own campus, network, creative home…

What's next?

Right now we're exploring how we can better support groups gathering on the internet — from community events and meetups, to tiny conferences and cohorts, experimental workshops, and more.

Convening to do things together…and doing things over time. Hosting a garden party…but also tending to the garden.

[Join us](https://hyperlink.academy/) in playing with small-scale social spaces on the internet.
